Now, your monitoring server is equipped with
Alertmanager and you can send out alerts when needed.
If you'd like to experiment some more,
try adding another communication channel to diversify your alerts.
You could also experiment with the PromQL expressions to trigger more alerts.
Remember, what I said about alert fatigue?
It's a real thing and can drain your monitoring system of its value,
once your team starts to ignore its alerts.
Keep your alerts relevant, actionable, and important.
Anything else can just go to a dashboard for people to view when they want to.
If you're struggling with this exercise,
go back to the alert section and re-watch those videos.
Let's actually take a look at this system working and alerting.
As I've shown you before,
when Alertmanager is not alerting on anything,
there are no alerts going on,
no problems, then Alertmanager is actually pretty boring.
There's nothing really going on here.
Let's actually cause something to happen.
Here in my AWS console,
I've got four instances running.
I've got Prometheus, and I've got three node exporters running.
Let's actually take one of these out of commission.
We'll just go to Actions and stop the instance.
Yeah, let's stop that.
Now, this is going to do something to Prometheus.
Let's take a look at Prometheus to see what's happening.
Here in Prometheus, we should be able to go to alerts and
see that we have one active alert InstanceDown.
Here, we can see the expression is running up equals 0,
which means the instance is not working anymore,
and we can see that it's pending state.
Since this time in history,
this instance has been down.
Now, it's only pending, because remember,
we want this status for one whole minute.
We need to wait one minute and then we'll be able to see
that this alert goes over to Alertmanager.
Here in Alertmanager, we're able to see that we have
a pending alert almost ready to send out.
We're just waiting for that minute to expire.
I just heard a notification from Slack.
Let's go check it out. There it is.
Right here in Slack, we've got an alert telling us that we have an InstanceDown.
Now, let's go fix it.
To fix this, all we got to do is start our node exporter again.
Once the EC2 instance is back up and running,
we no longer have any alerts in Alertmanager,
and we see here in Prometheus,
that our alert for InstanceDown is no longer pending or active.
Now, my dev team and I are poised and ready to be able to
solve problems on the fly without having long periods of downtime.